# Rust Mandelbrot dojo

A skeleton for a simple exploratory Rust project. The task is to create a Mandelbrot set renderer.

## Setup

First you need Rust, with Cargo (Rust's build system) follow [their instructions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/installing-rust.html) for auto-setup, installing pre-built binaries, or building from source.

Then, hopefully you should just be able to run:

    cargo run
    cargo run -- --help

And your code will run, generating a blank `mandelbrot.png` in the root of the project. Once you've debugged it a bit & you want to stretch things (a lot!):

    cargo build --release && time ./target/release/mandelbrot_dojo -w 10000 -n 200

In the meantime, have a play with the code in `src/mandelbrot.rs` - see what you can make. You can write tests, and browse the documentation of this _crate_ and the ones we depend on with:

    cargo test
    cargo doc --open

## Suggestions

The [Mandelbrot set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandelbrot_set) (a set of complex numbers) can be generated by simply iterating the following equation:

    z <- z^2 + a

Starting with `z=0` and `a` is the (complex) point being tested for membership. If at any point `|z|>2`, the iteration can stop, as `a` cannot be in the set. We typically stop after a given maximum number of iterations.

### Extensions

 - More advanced visualisations (with more than the two colors needed to demonstrate membership) can be generated using the number of iterations required to escape (where `|z|>2`) to shade points outside the set. Various nonlinear and hue/brightness mappings could be used to make this look unique.

 - Learn a bit about Rust's struct and traits by writing your own `Complex` class, rather than using `num::complex::Complex`.

 - Try writing & running tests using `#[test]`, documentation using `///`.

 - Rewrite your code to generalize to `f64` (try finding a small region where this matters).

 - (Probably very tough...) write a multithreaded renderer based on your per-pixel generator.
